RF-Fingerprint Demo – Rich-Text Walk-through

⸻

1  Scene-setter  (~20 s)

What you’re about to see is a proof-of-concept that recognises a vessel purely from the RF “noise” it leaks (Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, radar meta-data). That lets us expose AIS spoofing and “dark” vessels.
Three boats are replayed off Cape Lookout. Every RF ping is plotted; the dot’s colour tells you whether things look normal or suspicious.

⸻

2  Legend & colour code  (show bottom-left box)

Colour	Status	Rule (spoken explanation)
●	Normal	“Fingerprint matches the MMSI the AIS is broadcasting.”
●	Spoof	“Fingerprint says Vessel X, but AIS claims a different MMSI.”
●	Dark	“AIS is silent—no MMSI at all.”
●	Mis-Spoof	“Model mis-IDs the boat and AIS is spoofing—the worst-case double error.”



⸻

3  Start playback  (click ▶ Start)

Every 30 s of simulated time a new ping appears. The blue line is that vessel’s path toward shore; dots stay on the map so you get a breadcrumb trail.

⸻

4  Pop-up anatomy  (click any green dot)

Pop-up field	Script line
True ID	“Ground-truth MMSI in our validation set.”
Predicted ID	“What the fingerprint model thinks this boat is.”
Claimed ID	“Whatever MMSI the AIS transponder is yelling right now.”
Status	“Normal / Spoof / Dark / Mis-Spoof, derived on the fly.”
Wi-Fi / BT / RSSI	“Example RF meta-features—counts and signal strength.”



⸻

5  Highlight key cases  (zoom & click)
	•	Red (Spoof) – ping 10 or 25 of V-222
“Fingerprint says V-222, AIS tries 444 444 444 → Spoof.”
	•	Orange (Dark) – ping 15 of V-333
“No AIS, but fingerprint still alive → Dark vessel.”
	•	Purple (Mis-Spoof) – ping 18 of V-111
“Deliberately injected: true V-111, model guesses V-222, AIS spoofs 444 444 444 → purple Mis-Spoof.”

⸻

6  Wrap-up

Key take-aways
	1.	Claimed ID is never part of training; the model learns only from RF patterns.
	2.	Post-processing compares Predicted vs. Claimed to raise Normal, Spoof or Dark.
	3.	Mis-predictions are surfaced (purple) so accuracy can be audited.
	4.	Swap in a real model and live RF feed—this UI works unchanged.

⸻

Glossary cheat-sheet

Term	One-liner
Fingerprint	“A vector of RF meta-features that is stable for a hull.”
True ID	“Ground-truth MMSI label in the dataset.”
Predicted ID	“Model’s best guess from the fingerprint.”
Claimed ID	“The MMSI the AIS packet claims—easily spoofed or blank.”
Normal	“Predicted ID = Claimed ID.”
Spoof	“Predicted ID ≠ Claimed ID.”
Dark	“Claimed ID is empty.”
Mis-Spoof	“Model mis-IDs and AIS spoof in same frame (purple).”

Use this structured talk-track to deliver a clear, confidence-building demo to both executives and technical reviewers.